# ___Day 2: Red-Nosed Reports___

Fortunately, the first location The Historians want to search isn't a long walk from the Chief Historian's office.

While the [Red-Nosed Reindeer nuclear fusion/fission plant](../../2015/19/19.md#day-19-medicine-for-rudolph) appears to contain no sign of the Chief Historian, the engineers there run up to you as soon as they see you. Apparently, they __still__ talk about the time Rudolph was saved through molecular synthesis from a single electron.

They're quick to add that - since you're already here - they'd really appreciate your help analyzing some unusual data from the Red-Nosed reactor. You turn to check if The Historians are waiting for you, but they seem to have already divided into groups that are currently searching every corner of the facility. You offer to help with the unusual data.

The unusual data (your puzzle input) consists of many __reports__, one report per line. Each report is a list of numbers called __levels__ that are separated by spaces. For example:

```
7 6 4 2 1
1 2 7 8 9
9 7 6 2 1
1 3 2 4 5
8 6 4 4 1
1 3 6 7 9
```

This example data contains six reports each containing five levels.

The engineers are trying to figure out which reports are __safe__. The Red-Nosed reactor safety systems can only tolerate levels that are either gradually increasing or gradually decreasing. So, a report only counts as safe if both of the following are true:

*   The levels are either __all increasing__ or __all decreasing__.
*   Any two adjacent levels differ by __at least one__ and __at most three__.

In the example above, the reports can be found safe or unsafe by checking those rules:

*   `7 6 4 2 1`: __Safe__ because the levels are all decreasing by 1 or 2.
*   `1 2 7 8 9`: __Unsafe__ because `2 7` is an increase of 5.
*   `9 7 6 2 1`: __Unsafe__ because `6 2` is a decrease of 4.
*   `1 3 2 4 5`: __Unsafe__ because `1 3` is increasing but `3 2` is decreasing.
*   `8 6 4 4 1`: __Unsafe__ because `4 4` is neither an increase or a decrease.
*   `1 3 6 7 9`: __Safe__ because the levels are all increasing by 1, 2, or 3.

So, in this example, __`2`__ reports are __safe__.

Analyze the unusual data from the engineers. __How many reports are safe?__

Your puzzle answer was `213`.

## ___Part Two___

The engineers are surprised by the low number of safe reports until they realize they forgot to tell you about the Problem Dampener.

The Problem Dampener is a reactor-mounted module that lets the reactor safety systems __tolerate a single bad level__ in what would otherwise be a safe report. It's like the bad level never happened!

Now, the same rules apply as before, except if removing a single level from an unsafe report would make it safe, the report instead counts as safe.

More of the above example's reports are now safe:

*   `7 6 4 2 1`: __Safe__ without removing any level.
*   `1 2 7 8 9`: __Unsafe__ regardless of which level is removed.
*   `9 7 6 2 1`: __Unsafe__ regardless of which level is removed.
*   <code>1 <b>3</b> 2 4 5</code>: __Safe__ by removing the second level, `3`.
*   <code>8 6 <b>4</b> 4 1</code>: __Safe__ by removing the third level, `4`.
*   `1 3 6 7 9`: __Safe__ without removing any level.

Thanks to the Problem Dampener, __`4`__ reports are actually __safe__!

Update your analysis by handling situations where the Problem Dampener can remove a single level from unsafe reports. __How many reports are now safe?__